- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll walk through
how we maintain our merge as a feature branch
provided by a contributor.
The merge is performed after code review has been completed
and all suggestions have been applied.
At this point, the contributor's work is complete
so we will be logged in to the GitLab UI as a maintainer.
The first thing the maintainer will notice
is that the merge request has been added to GitLab,
so let's enter the merge request section
and we'll drill down into
the Missing Feature A merge request.
The maintainer has already performed a code review,
so they are safe to perform the merge.
This will merge the code changes
in the Missing Feature A branch into develop.
So let's go ahead and click on the Merge button
and once the merge is complete,
we can scroll down to the bottom
and close the merge request.
At this point, the changes are now in the Develop branch
and we'd like to build a Release Candidate branch
that can be merged into Master.
To do that, we're going to navigate
into the repository section and click on Branches.
We'll click on the New Branch button
at the top right hand corner of the screen
and we're going to name our new branch
version-1-release.
It's important here that you select the Develop branch
as the branch that we will create
our new version-1-release branch from.
So we're basically going to create a clone
of develop named version-1-release.
Remember, develop contains the changes
from our feature branch.
They're slowly being promoted.
We'll go ahead and then click on the Create Branch button
and now we have our new version-1-release branch.
Now at this point, we would do some QA testing.
Let's say that QA testing reveals we have an issue
with the feature-list file.
If it's a small issue,
let's say instead of feature-a they want feature a,
we can go in and edit the file
right within the user interface of GitLab,
so let's just replace that dash with a space.
We can then, at this point, commit our changes
and now that commit is sitting
within the version-1-release branch,
which is ready to be merged with our master branch.
In order to perform that merge, we're going to navigate
into the merge request section on the side bar
and we can build a new merge request.
A really nice feature of GitLab
is how it picks up on recent branch changes
and then gives you a quick link to make a merge request
based upon those changes to a branch.
So let's just click on Create Merge Request
and here it's going to set up our merge request,
it already gave it a name,
and then if we look at the bottom
it's going to merge our release candidate
into the Master, which is exactly what we want to happen.
So let's go ahead and click
on the Submit Merge Request button
and at this point, our new merge request is created
and it's simply going to take those changes
from the release candidate and apply them to Master.
And remember, Master's a copy of the production code,
so we will have completed our work
from taking the feature a branch
from the local work station all the way to production.
Let's go ahead and we'll click on Merge
in order to merge those changes into Master
and then we're going to go ahead
and close the merge request.
That's going to complete our promotion
of our feature branch changes into production
via the GitFlow.